                      The PLUG Source Code Archives
                      =============================

This FTP archive is a collection of Poplog source code made freely available
for public use by the Poplog and Pop Languages User Group (PLUG).  The
collection has been running in different guises for at least six years and has
been gradually trimmed and refined over the years.  This collection only
exists because of the generousity of the contributors and the selfless effort
of the administrators over the years.  Thanks to you all.

======================== Important disclaimer ===============================
| The material in this archive is freely contributed and must be used on    |
| an "as is" basis.  In particular, no guarantee or warranty concerning     |
| this software is made by the contributors, the user group, the archive    |
| administrator, or the site of distribution.  There is no formal           |
| maintenance or support for any of the software in this archive.           |
=============================================================================

The archive is structured in the form of a Poplog file system.  To make use of
the archive you need to add the archive directories onto the path-variables
-popliblist-, -popuseslist- and so on.  The best way to do this is detailed
in the file READMETOO.

If you have any comments on the archive, on software that is so useful it
should be made part of the Poplog system, on faults in the source code, or
things you would like to see in the system, I would be interested in hearing
from you. In general, if you would like to air your views to a wider audience,
then you may like to mail to the "popforum" electronic mailing list, details
of which are given in the "contacts" file.

Steve Knight,                           Email       sfk@hplb.hpl.hp.com
Hewlett-Packard Labs,                   Tel (UK)    0272-228061
Bristol, BS12 6QZ
United Kingdom
