            Global Open Source Poplog Library
            =================================

-- Version 1.2.2 (23 Mar 2010) -----------------------------------------

    *   Reorganisation and rehosting as part of Assembla.Com.

-- Version 1.2.1 (2nd Feb 2005) ----------------------------------------

    *   Extra documentation added.

    *   Aaron Sloman pointed out that the pop_ui_projecttool happens
        to use the phrase "project" as well.  I have documented this
        unfortunate clash of terminology but I am reluctant to give
        way since the pop_ui_projecttool isn't really a mature piece
        of work.


-- Version 1.2 (13th Jan 2005) -----------------------------------------

    *   Change of terminology from packages to projects - makes a lot
        more sense.  Introduce idea of project-collections.  Because
        many of the file names and contents have changed to reflect
        the new terminology, I've decided to bump the minor version
        number.


-- Version 1.1.1 (13 Dec 04) -------------------------------------------

    *   New, elegant Named Arguments syntax.  See HELP *NAMED_ARGS

    *   new_property, a simple and powerful property constructor that
        makes use of the named arguments syntax.
        See HELP *NEW_PROPERTY.

    *   lib server - a basic facility for writing internet servers.
        See HELP *SERVER

    *   Fixed contact details.


-- Version 1.1.0 (12 Dec 04) -------------------------------------------

Modest reorganization to accomodate the additional work for the gStudy
project.


-- Version 1.0 (27 Nov 99) ---------------------------------------------

Massive reorganisation and consolidation of the old PLUG Source Code
Archives to create the new GOSPL.  All the public library material has
been pulled together to create this release which, hopefully, is better
suited to the Open Source environment.


-- Version 0.7 ---------------------------------------------------------

NEW floor, ceiling
    Simple autoloadable maths functions.


-- Version 0.6 ---------------------------------------------------------

In this release I have started a long-overdue cleanup process.  I have
withdrawn quite a few contributions because they were broken or
undocumented or beyond immediate recall.  I rescued "lib shownet",
however, as it provides a really excellent capability but was suffering
from severe software rot.  I rather doubt that anyone was using these.
(If you were, you'll find backup copies in the obsolete directory.  You
should take copies and stuff them in your own local library.)

I've unfortunately had to withdraw some facilities contributed by Jon
Meyer because of inconsistencies that had arisen between different
versions.  Owing to the limited amount of effort I can put into
maintaining the PLUG archive, I reluctantly decided to remove them
rather than risk giving people serious problems later on.

NEW lib psprint
    Use postscript to print your VED buffers.  This nice facility
    can deal with the new VED character styles and everything.  A
    neat contribution by Jon Meyer of ISL.

NEW newtokeniser
    This library provides a convenient way of writing new itemisers.
    It is based around the idea of specifying a state
    transition network.  It's been around for a long time but hasn't
    been given a public airing before.  See HELP *NEWTOKENISER.
    Contributed by Steve Knight.

NEW restack
    This autoloadable syntax word generates efficient code for stack
    manipulation.  See HELP *RESTACK.

NEW plant_in_line
    This autoloadable syntax word enables you to plant code in line
    rather than call procedures.  See HELP *PLANT_IN_LINE.

NEW sysplant
    A simple autoloadable routine that makes code planting very
    simple in many cases.  See HELP *SYSPLANT.

NEW IMPROVED module, lib extend_section, section_publish, section_subscribe
    The entire publish & subscribe model for sections has been revised
    to good effect.  A new syntax for using publish & subscribe
    has been introduced, see HELP *MODULE, and the service functions
    section_publish and section_subscribe have been nicely separated.
    See HELP *SECTION_PUBLISH.  To extend the section/endsection syntax see
    HELP *EXTEND_SECTION.

IMPROVED lib shownet
    A nice VED-based library for drawing general nets rather than just
    trees.  The previous version introduced many unwelcome variables
    at top-level and had many obsolete programming constructs.  These
    problems have been fixed.  See HELP *SHOWNET.

NEW lib chain_repeaters
    Another repeater oriented procedure.  This one takes a list of
    repeaters and produces a repeater that uses each in turn.  See
    HELP *CHAIN_REPEATERS and REF *REPEATERS.  Contributed by Steve Knight.

WITHDRAWN lib objectclass
    Now available in Poplog 14.5 in the prototype library.

WITHDRAWN lib regexp_compile
    New available in Poplog 14.5 as part of the system.

WITHDRAWN lib rectype
    Undocumented.

WITHDRAWN lib savelist
    Superceded by datafile.

WITHDRAWN lib autoindent
    As part of the review process, lib autoindent didn't make the
    grade and was simply too hard to bring up to date with modern
    programming practices.  There were also several problems with the
    library.  It is a shame to withdraw it as it is a good idea and
    much of the implementation was good.

WITHDRAWN lib lsq.p
    Superceded and undocumented.

WITHDRAWN lib trap.p
    Superceded by Poplog's lib debugger.

WITHDRAWN lib popdbm
    Inconsistent with the new HiPWorks dbm.

WITHDRAWN lib datainout
    Inconsistent with the new HiPWorks datainout.

WITHDRAWN lib Xpi
    Sadly I had to withdraw this work because of software rot.  It
    relied on library path names that changed.  Hopefully, it will be
    published as part of the HiP system.


-- Version 0.5 (13/09/93) ----------------------------------------------

A belated release.  The main reason for this release is the inclusion
of Jon Meyer's Xpi package.  I've not done much to the library this
year owing to pressure of work.  I've also withdrawn my objectclass
library on the basis that it will be included in the base release of
POPLOG in the near future.

lib popxpi
HELP *Xpi
    X Portable Image library.  Another whiz piece of software from
    Jon Meyer.  Does a lot of "xv" things but all inside Pop11.
    Amazing stuff if you are into image processing.

WITHDRAWN lib objectclass
    Removed to meet distribution arrangements with ISL.  The objectclass
    project will be included (we believe) in version 14.5.


-- Release 4 (22/11/92) ------------------------------------------------

I am (slowly) continuing to document and review the contents of this
archive.  I have moved the VED material into its own sub-library simply
because there is so much that it obscures the other material.  Furthermore,
the VED routines don't seem to age as well.  So there seem quite good
reasons for splitting them off.

I have also taken the liberty of "tidying up" some of the source code.
This mainly consists of introducing section/endsection brackets and
replacing archaic constructions (e.g. vars fred; true -> fred;) with
modern ones (e.g vars fred = true;).

pop11/lib/regexp.p
pop11/ref/regexp
    Full regular expression matching for VED -- and about time too --
    submitted by Jon Meyer.  Alpha release -- will be will withdrawn
    from this archive if/when it enters the main system.

pop11/lib/profiler.p
pop11/ref/profiler
    A code profiler submitted by Jonathan Meyer.  Uses showtree to
    display results.  Alpha release -- will be withdrawn from this
    archive if/when it enters main system.

pop11/lib/modtransfms.p
pop11/ref/modtransfms
    A library for making (and inverting) the affine transformations
    in any whole-numbered dimension.  This work formed the basis for
    James Anderson's PhD thesis.  Contributed by Dr. Anderson.

pop11/auto/SPACE.p
pop11/auto/TIME.p
pop11/help/SPACE
pop11/help/TIME
    A couple of syntax words which are helpful for calculating the time
    or space used by commands.  These syntax words were introduced at the
    PLUG92 tutorial on efficient Pop programming.

pop11/help/dollar_dollar
pop11/lib/dollar_dollar.p
    A syntax word for putting Prolog terms into Pop11 programs in a neat
    and convenient fashion.  Submitted by Robin Popplestone.

pop11/ved/help/latex
pop11/lib/ved/latex.p
    A latex mode for VED.  Submitted by Robin Popplestone.

pop11/lib/objectclass
    A new release of the ObjectClas library.  Still going strong!
    This library is the basis of the course given in the PLUG92
    tutorial on object-oriented programming.

-- Version 0.3 (22/01/92) ----------------------------------------------

pop11/help/ved_deletefile
pop11/auto/ved_deletefile.p
    A utility command that deletes the current buffer from VED and the disc.
    Contributed by Aaron Sloman.

pop11/help/ved_mergefile
pop11/auto/ved_mergefile.p
    A utility command that merges the current buffer into the previous
    buffer, then deletes the current buffer from VED and the disc.
    Contributed by Aaron Sloman.

pop11/help/<|
pop11/auto/<|.p
    Procedure brackets -- useful when writing very short procedures which
    take no arguments.  Contributed by Steve Knight.

pop11/help/<<
pop11/auto/<<|.p
    Procedure composition brackets -- which are useful when trying to
    procedurally compose several variables together.  Contributed by
    Steve Knight.

pop11/help/ctbrackets
pop11/lib/ctbrackets.p
pop11/auto/<#.p
pop11/auto/<##.p
pop11/auto/<#|.p
    A collection of handy compile-time evaluation brackets.  Three syntax
    words that make up for the deficiency of the existing hash-brackets.
    Contributed by Steve Knight.

-- Version 0.2 (23/10/91) ----------------------------------------------

pop11/help/objectclass
pop11/lib/objectclass.p
pop11/lib/objectclass/...
    An significant object-oriented extension to Pop11.  The features of this
    library are (a) good performance (b) tight integration with Pop11.
    Written as an alternative to the existing flavours library.  Contributed
    by Steve Knight.


-- Version 0.1 (14/10/91) ----------------------------------------------

pop11/auto/+_n.p
pop11/help/+_n
    Adds the top N items of the stack.

pop11/auto/*_n.p
pop11/help/*_n
    Multipies the top N items of the stack.

pop11/auto/apprepeater.p
pop11/help/apprepeater
    Added the procedure apprepeater.
        apprepeater( R, P )
    The procedure apprepeater iterates over all the elements of a repeater R
    applying the procedure P to each element in turn.

pop11/auto/discinline.p
pop11/help/discinline
    A variant of -discin- that returns a line repeater rather than a character
    repeater.  Equivalent to
        discin <> incharline
    but much more efficient.  Very useful.

pop11/auto/files_matching.p
pop11/help/files_matching
    Mades available a filename matching procedure
        files_matching( <string:file-expression> ) -> files ...
    Returns all the files matching the file-expression.  May
    contain wildcards.

pop11/auto/files_in_directory.p
pop11/help/files_in_directory
    Added the procedure
        files_in_directory( dir ) -> files ...
    Returns all the files in a directory, with the exception of '.' and
    '..'.

pop11/auto/in_directory.p
pop11/help/in_directory
    A syntax word for iterating over the contents of a directory
        for f in_directory D do
            ...
        endfor
    Only one variable allowed.  The loop-variable is automatically
    declared.

pop11/auto/in_items.p
pop11/help/in_items
    A syntax word for iterating over exploded collections of things.
    e.g.
        for i in_items ( 1, 2, 3 ) do
            i =>
        endfor;
        ** 1
        ** 2
        ** 3
    Works with multiple loop variables.  The for-loop variables are
    automatically declared.

pop11/auto/incharline.p
pop11/help/incharline
    An repeater-converter that promotes a character repeater to
    a line repeater.  Unlike the system version, it returns a fresh string
    each time.  A very useful utility.

pop11/auto/load_project.p
pop11/help/load_project
    A way of neatly making complex Pop11 source code applications available.
    It is used to structure the PLUG archive itself.  Useful.

pop11/auto/newpushable.p
pop11/help/newpushable
    A repeater-converter with a twist.  This function takes a repeater and
    returns a similar repeater that has an updater!  The updater of a repeater
    pushes an item onto the front of the stream.  This is an especially useful
    function when working with processing streams of data.

pop11/auto/print_file.p
pop11/help/print_file
    Added the procedure print_file.
        print_file( F )
    Prints the file F to cucharout.

pop11/auto/rev_n.p
pop11/help/rev_n
    Reverses the top N items of the stack.
        rev_n(#| 1,2,3,4 |#) =>
        ** 4 3 2 1

pop11/help/tinyglobe
pop11/lib/tinyglobe.p
    An amusing example that illustrates the use of the flavours system.
    It creates a simple "world" of interacting creatures and invites you
    to write your own.  (Contributed by Chris Price)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
